online shop hibernate-springmvc-angular-restful
----------------------

The purpose of this project is to demonstrate the usage of Spring MVC RESTful services with an Angular.js frontend with Hibernate and HSQL DB as the in memory database.
The SpringMVC application is essentially exposing its services via REST API and the Angular.JS is consuming it via REST Client calls:

* The Maven Archetype spring-mvc-bootstrap-angularjs-starter has been used to create the initial project structure and configuration. The source can be retrieved here https://github.com/wvuong/spring-mvc-bootstrap-angularjs-starter
* Java classes in the package com.willvuong.* have been generated by the Maven Archetype. Java classes in the package co.za.hendricks have been developed by this authoer @aziz
* Spring config has been done using the Java Config instead of Spring XML configuration. My additions to this can be seen in com.willvuong.bootstrapper.config.AppConfiguration.java
* Hibernate is the persistance layer using the in memory database provided by hsqldb. No physical database is required to run the application - makes it easier to demo.
* Sample Test Data is loaded on every application startup using Hibernate entities. This has been implemented in the class co.za.hendricks.dao.DataLoader.java
* Logging as provided by the Maven archtype, is done using SL4J
* Boostrap CSS elements are used for the minimal styling that has been done
* Angular.js is used for the templating, routing and REST client calls.

Implemented and TODO
----------------------
Completed:
* REST Services to create and list Product and User entities
* REST Services to attach Products to a Users's Basket
* Product List, Product Detail, User Profile screens

Todo:
* Add Spring MVC Security (app is currently hardcoded to use default user aziz)
* Implement Login screen
* Add Security to the RESTful api (services are currently no secured)
* Fix Hibernate Transactionality implementation (remove usage of begin and commit transaction)
* Add Swagger Restful Api
* Add Javascript unit tests
* Add Java unit tests for DAO classes using EasyMock
* Remove hardcoded REST API server name location calls (example localhost:8080)

System Requirements
----------------------
You will need the following installed:
* Maven 3.1+, ensure that your maven settings.xml file contains your proxy settings if required in a corporate environment (this is to ensure that dependencies can download)
* JDK 1.7.0_45 is required as this is Java version that testing was done on
* If you don't want to use the embedded Jetty, then Tomcat 7 is supported.


How Run
----------------------
Maven is configured to compile for JDK7 so make sure that you have your `JAVA_HOME` configured correctly (you can check this also by running `mvn --version`).

Let's get this thing running:

To run it directly from mvn and using embedded jetty, run the following command:

```
mvn jetty:run
```
Then navigate to the following location on your browser (assumuming Jetty's default port is 8080. The app will only work if is deployed to port 8080 due to the hardcoding of the REST calls to port 8080.

```
http://localhost:8080/productlist/
```




